# Football Video Analysis and Player Tracking

This project processes football videos to analyze game for various metrics. The program leverages deep learning models, optical flow, and computer vision techniques to produce detailed insights into player and ball dynamics over a sequence of frames.

---

## Features

- **Object Tracking**: Tracks players and ball across video frames using YOLO-based object detection.
- **Camera Movement Estimation**: Accounts for camera movements in frame-to-frame tracking.
- **View Transformation**: Projects tracked positions into a transformed view for better analysis.
- **Team Assignment**: Differentiates players based on shirt colors using K-means clustering.
- **Ball Assignment**: Assigns ball possession to the nearest player within a prefeined distance bracket.
- **Speed and Distance Calculation**: Estimates player speeds and distances covered over time.
- **Annotated Output Video**: Generates an annotated video with player positions, ball tracking, and camera movement indications.

---

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have Docker installed on your system. Alternatively, Python dependencies are listed in the `requirements.txt` file if you wish to run the project locally without Docker.

---

## Installation

### Option 1: Using Docker

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/noorulhudaajmal/Football-Video-Analysis-and-Player-Tracking.git
   cd football-video-analysis
   ```
2. Build the Docker image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t football-video-analysis .
    ```
3. Run the Docker container:
    ```bash
    docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/input_videos:/app/input_videos -v $(pwd)/output_videos:/app/output_videos football-video-analysis
    ```

### Option 2: Run Locally (Without Docker)

1. Install Python dependencies:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
2. Run the main script:
    ```bash
    python main.py
    ```

## Usage
Place your input video files in the `input_videos/` folder.
After running the script, the processed and annotated output video will be saved in    `output_videos/vid_1.avi`.

## Output Demo
Below is the annotated output video generated by this program, showing player positions, team assignments, ball control, camera movements, and speed estimates.

---


